Added guide for TS3AudioBot (#942)
Uberspace/lab: source/guide_ts3audiobot.rst

.. highlight:: console

.. author:: Felix Franz <https://www.felix-franz.com>

.. tag:: web

.. _TS3AudioBot: https://github.com/Splamy/TS3AudioBot
.. _TeamSpeak3: https://teamspeak.com
.. _youtube-dl: https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl

###########
TS3AudioBot
###########

.. tag_list::

TS3AudioBot_ is a open-source TeamSpeak3 bot, playing music and much more.

.. warning:: For using the bot, you also need a TeamSpeak3_ server!

----

.. note:: For this guide you should be familiar with the basic concepts of

  * TeamSpeak3_
  * :manual:`.htaccess <web-documentroot>`
  * :manual:`supervisord <daemons-supervisord>`
..  * :manual:`domains <web-domains>`
  * :manual:`lang-dotnet`

License
=======

TS3AudioBot_ was written by `Splamy <https://splamy.de/>`_ and licensed under `OSL-3.0 <https://github.com/Splamy/TS3AudioBot#license>`_.

Installation
============

Download release file:

::

 [isabell@stardust ~]$ mkdir ts3audiobot
 [isabell@stardust ~]$ cd ts3audiobot

>  [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ wget https://github.com/Splamy/TS3AudioBot/releases/latest/download/TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ wget https://github.com/Splamy/TS3AudioBot/releases/latest/download/TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip
(...)
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 12161538 (12M) [application/octet-stream]
Saving to: ‘TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip’

100%[=====================================>] 12,161,538  49.3MB/s   in 0.2s   

2021-03-14 16:09:26 (49.3 MB/s) - ‘TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip’ saved [12161538/12161538]
```
Let's add some sample output so users know what to expect :)

Extract zip archive:

::

 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ unzip TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip
 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ rm TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip

Now we will configure the bot.
To set your TeamSpeak user as bot admin, you unique id is required.
Go to your TeamSpeak client and open the `Identities` window in the `Tools` menu.
Copy your `unique id`.

> To configure the bot, start it an interactively insert your configuration data (unique TeamSpeak user id, server name, server password, ...).
> After the configuration is done the bot will automatically connect to the TeamSpeak3 server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the bot, start it interactively and input your configuration data (unique TeamSpeak user id, server name, server password, ...).
After the configuration is done, the bot will automatically connect to the TeamSpeak3 server.
```

::

>  [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ dotnet TS3AudioBot.dll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 :emphasize-lines: 1,10,12,17,19
 
 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ dotnet TS3AudioBot.dll
 16:10:54.4473| INFO|| [============ TS3AudioBot started =============]
 16:10:54.5198| INFO|| [ Date/Time: Sunday, 14 March 2021 16:10:54
 16:10:54.5302| INFO|| [ Version: 0.11.0/master/c7e44e4d
 16:10:54.5310| INFO|| [ Platform: CentOS Linux 7 (Core) (64bit)
 16:10:54.5315| INFO|| [ Runtime: .NET Core (3.1.13) ServerGC:True GC:SustainedLowLatency
 16:10:54.5343| INFO|| [ Opus: libopus 1.0.2 (x64)
 16:10:54.5346| INFO|| [==============================================]
 16:10:55.2626| WARN|| No permission file found.
 Do you want to set up an admin in the default permission file template? [Y/n] Y
 Please enter an admin uid
 YourAdminUID
 16:11:36.1467| INFO|| Creating new permission file ({"AdminUids":["YourAdminUID"], "OverwriteIfExists":false})
 It seems like there are no bots configured.
 Fill out this quick setup to get started.
 Please enter the ip, domain or nickname (with port; default: 9987) where to connect to:
 1.3.3.7:9987
 Please enter the server password (or leave empty for none):
 SecretTSserverPWifAny
 16:12:41.2601| INFO|| Bot "default" connecting to "1.3.3.7:9987"
 16:12:41.8483| INFO|| Started Webserver on port 58913
```
The interactive mode asks quite a few questions. What do you think about adding sample output like this?

> .. warning::
> 
>  The bot also starts a webinterface by default on port 58913. If the port is already used you need to change this port.
> 
>  If you see such a error message stop the bot by ``Ctrl+C`` and configure another port.
>  You might re-try this process until you reach a freee port.
>  Change ``~/ts3audiobot/ts3audiobot.toml`` from
> 
>  .. code-block:: toml
> 
>   port = 58913
> 
>  to
> 
>  .. code-block:: toml
> 
>   port = <another port>

Reviewer: Each guide should assume that the target uberspace is empty, so the port will be free and we don't need to handle this case here.
```suggestion
```

The bot should now be connected.
Check it by connecting youself to the server.

You can also test if the bot plays music by connecting to the bot's TeamSpeak channel and send it following private message:

::

 !play https://file-examples-com.github.io/uploads/2017/11/file_example_MP3_700KB.mp3

Because the TS3AudioBot programm will be stopped if you disconnect your terminal, you need to configure a service.
Stop the bot by inserting ``Ctrl+C``.
Create ``~/etc/services.d/ts3audiobot.ini`` with following content:

.. code-block:: ini

 [program:ts3audiobot]
 command=dotnet TS3AudioBot.dll
 directory=/home/isabell/ts3audiobot/

.. include:: includes/supervisord.rst

> Playing youtube videos is currently not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Youtube Videos
==============

Playing youtube videos is currently not possible.
```
What do you think about starting a new section here?

Therefore we need youtube-dl_.

First clone the repo:

::

 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ git clone https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl.git

Then configure the path in ``~/ts3audiobot/ts3audiobot.toml``, change

.. code-block:: toml

 youtube-dl = { path = "" }

to

.. code-block:: toml

 youtube-dl = { path = "./youtube-dl" }

> Restart the bot to active the new config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart the bot to activate the new config:
```

::

 supervisorctl restart ts3audiobot

Test if you are now able to play youtube videos by sending ``!play <youtube url>`` to your bot.

> To be able to connect to the web interface add a reverse proxy to the bot.
> If you have changed the default port above, you need to do the same here.
> 
> Configure ``~/html/.htaccess`` like this:
> 
> .. code-block:: htaccess
> 
>  RewriteEngine On
>  RewriteRule ^(.*) http://isabell.local.uberspace.de:58913/$1 [P]
> 
> You should now be able to reach the bot on ``https://isabell.uber.space``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the web server
========================

.. note::

    TS3AudioBot is running on port 58913.

.. include:: includes/web-backend.rst
```
Proxies using `.htaccess` are deprecated on uberspace 7, please use a [web backend](https://manual.uberspace.de/web-backends/) instead.

 * - ``!next``
   - Plays next song in queue
 * - ``!previous``
   - Plays previous song in queue
 * - ``!help``
   - Shows a (hopefully) helping message

Refer to the `official TS3AudioBot wiki <https://github.com/Splamy/TS3AudioBot/wiki/CommandSystem>`_ for more commands.

Control the bot via the web interface
=====================================

Connect to the TeamSpeak Server an join the channel with the bot.
Go to Tools and click on Identities in your TeamSpeak and copy the unique id.
Generate an api token sending the message ``!api token`` to the bot.
Open the Webinterface on ``https://isabell.uber.space`` and insert unique id and token.
You should now be able to control the bot!

Updates
=======

Replace all files with the current release (backup your data in advance):

::

 [isabell@stardust ~]$ cd ts3audiobot
 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ wget https://github.com/Splamy/TS3AudioBot/releases/latest/download/TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip
 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ unzip -o TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip
 [isabell@stardust ts3audiobot]$ rm TS3AudioBot_dotnet_core_3.1.zip

Uninstallation
==============

Remove reverse proxy to the web interface:

::

>  [isabell@stardust ~]$ rm ~/html/.htaccess

Reviewer: Please adapt this for web backends as well.
